theme: jekyll-theme-slate
## Introduction
China and the US, one is the biggest developing country and the other is the most powerful developed countries in the world. The relationship between these two countries has great influence on international relationship. Looking back, the relationship showed different trends at different time period. In the beginning of 21th century, Bush administration’s policy toward China expanded the cooperation of China and the US. In particular, the economic and trade relations between the two countries are closer. Expect from collaboration, there are also many competitions and confrontations between China and the US in politics, economy and culture. For instance, the trade war is a clear reflection of the confrontation between the two countries. The official news platforms are essential channels for government to show their political voice and communicate with people. What are the key words and most popular topics of two countries’ news headlines? Are these two countries share some focus points which means both countries are attaching importance to these issues? From differences behind headlines and content of news, are there any stories of China and the US can we find?

This paper compares the similarities and differences of two countries’ official news websites in the time period of March 2017 to November 2018. We select the State Council website of China and the White House website of America to do data collection. On the one hand, we are going to figure out the differences of news writing strategy between two countries and to explore the propaganda model of the official news websites of China and the US. On the other hand, during the time period we explore, Sino-US trade war started. We are going to find out whether the political tension between two countries can reflect from the news articles on the official websites. We compare top-10 and top-10 most frequent words in news titles between two countries. Then we let computer generates the news topics automatically based on LSA and LDA using both bag of words and  TF-IDF. 

According to some related studies, focusing on the discourse analysis of the news of the China and the US. Yang (2011) identified the differences of news articles in the New York Times and China Daily could be easily observed, which was the New York Times tended to apply anti-Chinese government frame while a pro-government frame is common in the China Daily. Besides, Ooi & D’Arcangelis (2017) investigated how China was being “othered”, using “discourse analysis” to connect “orientalism” and found out that orientalist tropes related to three areas of significance: China’s national currency valuation, cyber espionage, and maritime disputes in the East China Sea and South China Sea. Moreover, Shao, Zhang, & Meng (2015) used automatic text analysis to explore the propaganda model of Xinwen Lianbo. They thought that political textual analysis was an important way to understand political phenomenon, and used supervised learning methods to process the 4018 textual documents of Xinwen Lianbo provided by CCTV. 11524 key words were extracted as the objects of study for further political communication analysis. Lots of researchers have explored the political tensions, political enemy and political relationship through the discourse analysis. This study gained inspiration from the previous study, combing with the method of data analysis and raised two research questions.

In viewing of the official news websites of the China and the US, this research raise a big question: What are the differences of the focus of the news between China and US? In order to answer this big question, this research explored in a more precise and specific way by answering two research questions:

RQ1: What are the most popular keywords among the headlines?

RQ2: What are the hot issues of the news articles in these two official websites?

## Data Acquisition
To answer the two aforementioned research questions, we chose to harvest the news section of the website of The White House ( https://www.whitehouse.gov/news/ ) and the news section of the website of The State Council of China ( http://english.gov.cn/news/topnews/ ) because they are the most authoritative news outlets in each country. We target at the date, the title, the url, and the full-text of each news article.
### White House
On a single webpage of the news section, all the data related to a certain piece of news were wrapped in a `<article>` html tag, with the title in a `<h2>` tag, the url in a `<a>` tag wrapped in the aforementioned `<h2>` tag, and the date in a `<p class = ‘meta_date’>` tag.
